README.md, before:

# Tableton

Find tabletop-games within your area.

## What's in the stack

- [Fly app deployment](https://fly.io) with [Docker](https://www.docker.com/)
- Production-ready [SQLite Database](https://sqlite.org)
- Healthcheck endpoint
  for [Fly backups region fallbacks](https://fly.io/docs/reference/configuration/#services-http_checks)
- [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions) for deploy on merge to production and staging environments
- Email/Password Authentication
  with [cookie-based sessions](https://remix.run/docs/en/v1/api/remix#createcookiesessionstorage)
- Database ORM with [Prisma](https://prisma.io)
- Styling with [Chakra-UI](https://chakra-ui.com/)
- End-to-end testing with [Cypress](https://cypress.io)
- Local third party request mocking with [MSW](https://mswjs.io)
- Unit testing with [Vitest](https://vitest.dev) and [Testing Library](https://testing-library.com)
- Code formatting with [Prettier](https://prettier.io)
- Linting with [ESLint](https://eslint.org)
- Static Types with [TypeScript](https://typescriptlang.org)

## Development

- Initial setup

  ```sh
  npm run setup
  ```

- Start dev server:

  ```sh
  npm run dev
  ```

This starts your app in development mode, rebuilding assets on file changes.

The database seed script creates a new user with some data you can use to get started:

- Email: `rachel@remix.run`
- Password: `racheliscool`

### Relevant code:

- creating users, and logging in and out [./app/models/user.server.ts](./app/models/user.server.ts)
- user sessions, and verifying them [./app/session.server.ts](./app/session.server.ts)
- creating, and deleting board-entries [./app/models/note.server.ts](./app/models/board.server.ts)

## Deployment

This Remix Stack comes with two GitHub Actions that handle automatically deploying your app to production and staging
environments.

If application is deployed and DB had changes run:

  ```sh
  prisma migrate {name}
  ```

Prior to your first deployment, you'll need to do a few things:

- [Install Fly](https://fly.io/docs/getting-started/installing-flyctl/)

- Sign up and log in to Fly

  ```sh
  fly auth signup
  ```

  > **Note:** If you have more than one Fly account, ensure that you are signed into the same account in the Fly CLI as
  > you are in the browser. In your terminal, run `fly auth whoami` and ensure the email matches the Fly account signed
  > into the browser.

- Create two apps on Fly, one for staging and one for production:

  ```sh
  fly create tableton
  fly create tableton-staging
  ```

- Add a `FLY_API_TOKEN` to your GitHub repo. To do this, go to your user settings on Fly and create a
  new [token](https://web.fly.io/user/personal_access_tokens/new), then add it
  to [your repo secrets](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/encrypted-secrets) with the
  name `FLY_API_TOKEN`.

- Add a `SESSION_SECRET` to your fly app secrets, to do this you can run the following commands:

  ```sh
  fly secrets set SESSION_SECRET=$(openssl rand -hex 32) --app tableton
  fly secrets set SESSION_SECRET=$(openssl rand -hex 32) --app tableton-staging
  ```

  If you don't have openssl installed, you can also use [1password](https://1password.com/password-generator/) to
  generate a random secret, just replace `$(openssl rand -hex 32)` with the generated secret.

- Create a persistent volume for the sqlite database for both your staging and production environments. Run the
  following:

  ```sh
  fly volumes create data --size 1 --app tableton
  fly volumes create data --size 1 --app tableton-staging
  ```

Now that everything is set up you can commit and push your changes to your repo. Every commit to your `main` branch will
trigger a deployment to your production environment, and every commit to your `dev` branch will trigger a deployment to
your staging environment.

### Connecting to your database

The sqlite database lives at `/data/sqlite.db` in your deployed application. You can connect to the live database by
running `fly ssh console -C database-cli` or to the staging database by running `fly ssh console -C database-cli -a yourappname-staging`

## GitHub Actions

We use GitHub Actions for continuous integration and deployment. Anything that gets into the `main` branch will be
deployed to production after running tests/build/etc. Anything in the `dev` branch will be deployed to staging.

## Testing

### Cypress

We use Cypress for our End-to-End tests in this project. You'll find those in the `cypress` directory. As you make
changes, add to an existing file or create a new file in the `cypress/e2e` directory to test your changes.

We use [`@testing-library/cypress`](https://testing-library.com/cypress) for selecting elements on the page
semantically.

To run these tests in development, run `npm run test:e2e:dev` which will start the dev server for the app as well as the
Cypress client. Make sure the database is running in docker as described above.

We have a utility for testing authenticated features without having to go through the login flow:

```ts
cy.login();
// you are now logged in as a new user
```

We also have a utility to auto-delete the user at the end of your test. Just make sure to add this in each test file:

```ts
afterEach(() => {
  cy.cleanupUser();
});
```

That way, we can keep your local db clean and keep your tests isolated from one another.

### Vitest

For lower level tests of utilities and individual components, we use `vitest`. We have DOM-specific assertion helpers
via [`@testing-library/jest-dom`](https://testing-library.com/jest-dom).

### Type Checking

To run type checking across the whole project, run `npm run typecheck`.

### Linting

This project uses ESLint for linting. That is configured in `.eslintrc.js`.

### Formatting

We use [Prettier](https://prettier.io/) for auto-formatting in this project. It's recommended to install an editor
plugin (like the [VSCode Prettier plugin](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=esbenp.prettier-vscode))
to get auto-formatting on save. There's also a `npm run format` script you can run to format all files in the project.

Commit message:

doc: add secrets to readme to not forget about them

README.md, after:

# Tableton

Find tabletop-games within your area.

## What's in the stack

- [Fly app deployment](https://fly.io) with [Docker](https://www.docker.com/)
- Production-ready [SQLite Database](https://sqlite.org)
- Healthcheck endpoint
  for [Fly backups region fallbacks](https://fly.io/docs/reference/configuration/#services-http_checks)
- [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions) for deploy on merge to production and staging environments
- Email/Password Authentication
  with [cookie-based sessions](https://remix.run/docs/en/v1/api/remix#createcookiesessionstorage)
- Database ORM with [Prisma](https://prisma.io)
- Styling with [Chakra-UI](https://chakra-ui.com/)
- End-to-end testing with [Cypress](https://cypress.io)
- Local third party request mocking with [MSW](https://mswjs.io)
- Unit testing with [Vitest](https://vitest.dev) and [Testing Library](https://testing-library.com)
- Code formatting with [Prettier](https://prettier.io)
- Linting with [ESLint](https://eslint.org)
- Static Types with [TypeScript](https://typescriptlang.org)

## Development

- Initial setup

  ```sh
  npm run setup
  ```

- Start dev server:

  ```sh
  npm run dev
  ```

This starts your app in development mode, rebuilding assets on file changes.

The database seed script creates a new user with some data you can use to get started:

- Email: `rachel@remix.run`
- Password: `racheliscool`

### Relevant code:

- creating users, and logging in and out [./app/models/user.server.ts](./app/models/user.server.ts)
- user sessions, and verifying them [./app/session.server.ts](./app/session.server.ts)
- creating, and deleting board-entries [./app/models/note.server.ts](./app/models/board.server.ts)

## Deployment

This Remix Stack comes with two GitHub Actions that handle automatically deploying your app to production and staging
environments.

If application is deployed and DB had changes run:

  ```sh
  prisma migrate {name}
  ```

Prior to your first deployment, you'll need to do a few things:

- [Install Fly](https://fly.io/docs/getting-started/installing-flyctl/)

- Sign up and log in to Fly

  ```sh
  fly auth signup
  ```

  > **Note:** If you have more than one Fly account, ensure that you are signed into the same account in the Fly CLI as
  > you are in the browser. In your terminal, run `fly auth whoami` and ensure the email matches the Fly account signed
  > into the browser.

- Create two apps on Fly, one for staging and one for production:

  ```sh
  fly create tableton
  fly create tableton-staging
  ```

- Add a `FLY_API_TOKEN` to your GitHub repo. To do this, go to your user settings on Fly and create a
  new [token](https://web.fly.io/user/personal_access_tokens/new), then add it
  to [your repo secrets](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/encrypted-secrets) with the
  name `FLY_API_TOKEN`.

- Add a `SESSION_SECRET` to your fly app secrets, to do this you can run the following commands:

  ```sh
  fly secrets set SESSION_SECRET=$(openssl rand -hex 32) --app tableton
  fly secrets set SESSION_SECRET=$(openssl rand -hex 32) --app tableton-staging
  ```

  Don't forget to add `DISCORD_CLIENT_ID` and `DISCORD_CLIENT_SECRET` as well for the bot to work.

  ```sh
  fly secrets set DISCORD_CLIENT_ID=YOUR_ID --app tableton
  fly secrets set DISCORD_CLIENT_SECRET=YOUR_SECRET --app tableton
  fly secrets set DISCORD_CLIENT_ID=YOUR_ID --app tableton-staging
  fly secrets set DISCORD_CLIENT_SECRET=YOUR_SECRET --app tableton-staging
  ```

  If you don't have openssl installed, you can also use [1password](https://1password.com/password-generator/) to
  generate a random secret, just replace `$(openssl rand -hex 32)` with the generated secret.

- Create a persistent volume for the sqlite database for both your staging and production environments. Run the
  following:

  ```sh
  fly volumes create data --size 1 --app tableton
  fly volumes create data --size 1 --app tableton-staging
  ```

Now that everything is set up you can commit and push your changes to your repo. Every commit to your `main` branch will
trigger a deployment to your production environment, and every commit to your `dev` branch will trigger a deployment to
your staging environment.

### Connecting to your database

The sqlite database lives at `/data/sqlite.db` in your deployed application. You can connect to the live database by
running `fly ssh console -C database-cli` or to the staging database by running `fly ssh console -C database-cli -a yourappname-staging`

## GitHub Actions

We use GitHub Actions for continuous integration and deployment. Anything that gets into the `main` branch will be
deployed to production after running tests/build/etc. Anything in the `dev` branch will be deployed to staging.

## Testing

### Cypress

We use Cypress for our End-to-End tests in this project. You'll find those in the `cypress` directory. As you make
changes, add to an existing file or create a new file in the `cypress/e2e` directory to test your changes.

We use [`@testing-library/cypress`](https://testing-library.com/cypress) for selecting elements on the page
semantically.

To run these tests in development, run `npm run test:e2e:dev` which will start the dev server for the app as well as the
Cypress client. Make sure the database is running in docker as described above.

We have a utility for testing authenticated features without having to go through the login flow:

```ts
cy.login();
// you are now logged in as a new user
```

We also have a utility to auto-delete the user at the end of your test. Just make sure to add this in each test file:

```ts
afterEach(() => {
  cy.cleanupUser();
});
```

That way, we can keep your local db clean and keep your tests isolated from one another.

### Vitest

For lower level tests of utilities and individual components, we use `vitest`. We have DOM-specific assertion helpers
via [`@testing-library/jest-dom`](https://testing-library.com/jest-dom).

### Type Checking

To run type checking across the whole project, run `npm run typecheck`.

### Linting

This project uses ESLint for linting. That is configured in `.eslintrc.js`.

### Formatting

We use [Prettier](https://prettier.io/) for auto-formatting in this project. It's recommended to install an editor
plugin (like the [VSCode Prettier plugin](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=esbenp.prettier-vscode))
to get auto-formatting on save. There's also a `npm run format` script you can run to format all files in the project.
